MARCH 2nd, THE CRISIS IN
UKRAINE.
RUSSIAN TROOPS SURROUN
UKRAINIAN MILITARY FACILITATOR
IN CRIMEA.
THE UKRAINIAN PRIME MINISTER
CALLS IT A DECLARATION OF WAR.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERR
ISSUES A NEW WARNING TO RUSSIA
NEXT ON PBS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH STUDIOS
IN NEW YORK HAR
SREENIVASAN.
>> THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
INTERNATIONAL CRISIS SURROUNDING
UKRAINE INTENSIFIED WITH MAN
EXPERTS DESCRIBING THE SITUATION
AS THE GREATEST THREAT T
EAST-WEST RELATIONS SINCE TH
COLD WAR
RUSSIAN TROOPS INVADE TERRITOR
OF CRIMEA IN THE LAST HOUR
TODAY SURROUNDED UKRAINIAN
MILITARY BASES THERE
THE PRIME MINISTER OF UKRAIN
SAID THAT ACTION BROUGHT THE
NEIGHBORING COMPANIES WITHIN
WHAT HE DESCRIBED AS A FEW
INCHES OF WAR.
>> THIS IS THE RED ALERT
THIS IS NOT THE THREAT, THIS I
THE ACTUALLY THE DECLARATION O
WAR TO MY COUNTRY.
>> AFTER PUTTING HIS TROOPS ON
TO STAND BY.
SECRETARY KERRY DESCRIBED TH
RUSSIAN INVASION AS A VIOLATIO
OF INTERNATIONAL LAW AND WARNE
THAT THE UNITED STATES AND ITS
ALLIES WOULD PUNISH RUSSIA
ECONOMICALLY IF IT DOES NO
REVERSE COURSE
>> EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THEM AR
PREPARED TO GO TO THE HILT I
ORDER TO ISOLATE RUSSIA WHEREA
TO THIS INVASION
THEY ARE PREPARED TO PUT
SANCTIONS IN PLACE
THEY ARE PREPARED TO ISOLATE
RUSSIA ECONOMICALLY.
>> IN BRUSSELS, BELGIUM, AT AN
EMERGENCY MEETING, NAT
SECRETARY-GENERAL DESCRIBED TH
SITUATION AS DANGEROUS AND
CALLED ON RUSSIA TO PULL BAC
ITS TROOPS
>> WHAT RUSSIA IS DOING NOW IN
UKRAINE VIOLATES THE PRINCIPLE
OF THE UNITED NATIONS CHARTER.
IT THREATENS PEACE AND SECURIT
IN EUROPE.
>> ACCORDING TO PUBLISHE
REPORTS PRESIDENT OBAMA SPOK
TODAY WITH WESTERN ALLIES AN
THE KREMLIN SAID RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT PUTIN CONFIRMED BY
PHONE WHAT GERMAN CHANCELLOR
ANGELA MERKEL.
FOR MORE ON THE GROUND, TW
REPORTS FROM BRITISH PARTNER
ITN.
THE FIRST FROM CRIMEA.
♪♪
>> Reporter: THE PRIES
APPROACHED WITH A CROSS.
THE RUSSIAN TROOPS THAT ARRIVE
OVERNIGHT, THEY WERE LINED UP ON
THE HILL WHERE UKRAINIAN FORCE
NORMALLY TRAIN
COME HERE, HE CRIED, SO THEY
CAME FORWARD HOPING FO
BLESSING
WHAT AN EXTRAORDINARY SIGHT.
AN ORTHODOX PRIEST BLESSING TH
TROOPS
IT'S HAPPENING JUST IN A FIELD
OUTSIDE.
IT'S NOT AS IT SEEMS, THE PRIEST
IS PRAYING FOR PEACE, FO
RUSSIAN TROOPS TO STAND DOWN
NOT TO OCCUPY HIS VILLAGE.
>> WE, THE WIVES AND MOTHERS
WHO PROTECT OUR SONS AND FATHERS
SERVING IN THE MILITARY, WE PRAY
FOR OUR UKRAINIAN SOLDIERS
DURING MILITARY SERVICE.
IF THEY ARE PEACEKEEPERS WHY DID
THEY COME ARMED.
>> Reporter: THEY WERE HEAVILY
ARMED TO TAKE UP POSITION AROUND
THE UKRAINIAN MARINE BASE.
WHAT LOOKED LIKE RUSSIAN SPECIAL
FORCES, NO INSIGNIA BUT CARRYING
WEAPONS WITH SILENCERS START A
THE GATE
THE UKRAINIAN FLAG STILL FLEW.
THE UKRAINIAN MARINES PRESUMABLY
TRAPPED INSIDE
TO LOCAL PEOPLE IT WAS
BEWILDERING.
>> RUSSIAN MILITARY GUYS COM
AND TRY TO RULE US
>> ARE YOU HAPPY ABOUT THAT?
>> NO, I'M NOT HAPPY ABOUT THAT.
I'M REALLY NOT HAPPY ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: RUSSIAN TROOPS WERE
EVERYWHERE
AND AT THE END OF THE STREET,
GROUP OF STONY FACED UKRAINIAN
CONSULATE ORDERED BY THEIR
COMMANDERS TO STAND THEIR GROUND
IN ANOTHER PART OF THE BASE.
THEIR ORDERS FROM KIEV ARE T
FIGHT.
BUT THAT'S PRETTY DIFFICULT,
BECAUSE THESE UKRAINIAN MARINE
HAVE ALWAYS WORKED ALONGSIDE
RUSSIANS
IT'S VERY HARD TO START FIGHTING
THEM NOW
OFFICERS FROM THE TWO SIDES AR
NEGOTIATING.
>> Translator: FIGHT IS A STRONG
WORD
WE ARE READY TO DEFEND OUR
FACILITIES AND SUPPLIES AND TO
PROTECT OUR UNITS.
I HOPE WE CAN FIND A COMPROMIS
AND DECISIONS WILL BE TAKEN TO
PREVENT WAR.
>> Reporter: TWO WOMEN DECIDED
TO TAKE ON A MAN WHO COMES
BEARING A RUSSIAN FLAG
YOU'RE NOT FROM AROUND HERE,
THEY SAID.
TAKE YOUR FLAG BACK WHERE YO
CAME FROM AND SHOVE IT
PEOPLE WE MET SAID THE
AFFILIATE CRIMEA, UKRAINIAN AN
RUSSIAN, THEY SAW NO NEED FO
CONFLICT
[ SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE
>> Translator: WHERE THEY COME
TO CONQUER THERE IS NO GOD
WHERE THERE IS EVIL, THERE NOISE
GOD.
GOD IS LOVE.
THESE PEOPLE ARE NOT COMING IN
PEACE, SO THERE CAN BE NO GOD.
>> RUSSIANS ARE HERE
IN THIS ONE CRIMEAN VILLAGE THEY
ARE PRAYING NOW THAT THE
SOLDIERS HAVE COME THIS FAR,
THEY WILL GO NO FURTHER.
>> ITN ON THE GROUND IN TH
CAPITAL CITY
>> Reporter: FOR THREE MONTH
THEY PROTECT THE CAPITAL
THEY DO SO AGAIN
THEY FACE A MORE POTENT THREAT
ONE THE DEFENSE TEAM WOULD B
UNABLE TO PROPEL
>> I WANT TO FIGHT FOR M
COUNTRY.
I WANT TO FIGHT FOR MY PEOPLE.
>> WE DON'T NEED OCCUPATION.
WE DON'T NEED WAR.
>> Reporter: THE FEAR OF A FUL
SCALE RUSSIAN INVASION RUN
THROUGH THIS NATION FROM THE
ORDINARY CITIZENS RIGHT UP T
THOSE WHO ARE READYING THEIR
MILITARY FOR WAR WHILE
DESPERATELY SEEKING PEACE.
PRESS CONFERENCES, WORDS SPOKE
LEAVES NO ONE IN DOUBT OF TH
JEOPARDY UKRAINE IS IN
HOW BIG DO YOU FEEL THE THREAT
IS FROM RUSSIA AND WHAT'S YOUR
MESSAGE TO VLADIMIR PUTIN.
>> THIS IS NOT THE THREAT.
THIS IS ACTUALLY THE DECLARATION
OF WAR TO MY COUNTRY
WE URGE PRESIDENT PUTIN TO PUL
BACK HIS MILITARY.
IF PRESIDENT PUTIN WANTS TO BE
THE PRESIDENT WHO STARTED TH
WAR BETWEEN TWO NEIGHBORING AN
FRIENDLY COUNTRIES, BETWEE
UKRAINE AND RUSSIA, SO HE HA
THIS TARGET, WE ARE ON THE BRINK
OF THE DISASTER.
>> THAT IS WHY YOUNG UKRAINIAN
RECEIVING ORDERS
>> HOPE THAT THE SITUATION IS --
WILL BE KNOWN.
BUT READY TO SAVE MY COUNTRY
>> Reporter: MANY SOUGHT TO SAVE
THEIR COUNTRY IN RECENT MONT
AND PAID WITH THEIR LIVES.
NOW AFTER TURMOIL OF REVOLUTION,
UKRAINIANS LIVE UNDER SHADOW O
WAR.
THEY HAVE THEIR OWN SENSE OF
DEFENSE.
THEY WOULD BE TESTED BUT N
SOLUTION
ISM TB NEWS, KIEV.
>>> WHAT'S DRIVING VLADIMI
PUTIN'S THINKING OF ALL THIS
WHAT'S THE RUSSIAN PERSPECTIVE
FOR MORE, PROFESSOR EMERITUS A
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
PUTIN JUST RAISED THE STAKES A
SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT
WHY?
>> WE HEAR THE AMERICAN VIEW
PUTIN IS IMPERIALIST SOVIE
LEADER, TRYING TO RECREATE THE
SOVIET UNION
HE'S SOMETHING FUNDAMENTALLY
DIFFERENT.
HE CAME TO POWER 14 YEARS AG
AND INHERITED A COLLAPSED STATE.
REMEMBER THE RUSSIANS MAY HAVE
COLLAPSED TWICE IN 20th CENTURY,
1917 AND 1991.
PUTIN'S MISSION IS TO RESTOR
RUSSIAN STABILITY, GREATNESS A
HOME
THAT INCLUDES TO SECURE RUSSIA'S
TRADITIONAL, HISTORICAL SECURITY
ZONES AROUND RUSSIA.
FIRST AND FOREMOST, THAT I
UKRAINE.
WHAT PUTIN DID WHEN HE MOBILIZED
HIS FORCES WAS TO SAY TO THE
UNITED STATES AND TO EUROPE, YOU
ARE CROSSING MY RED LINE, AND
HAVE NO CHOICE
POLITICALLY AT HOME, GIVEN THE
PRO RUSSIAN FORCES AND
SENTIMENTS IN EASTERN AN
SOUTHERN UKRAINE BORDERING
RUSSIA, I DON'T SEE HE HAD A
CHOICE
NOW HAS HE A CHOICE WHAT DOES HE
DO NEXT, BUT THAT WILL DEPEND.
>> SO WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS FOR
THE U.S. HERE?
>> ZERO.
ZERO
UNLESS WE WANT TO GO TO WAR.
PUTIN HOLDS ALL THE CARDS, FOR
BETTER OR FOR WORSE.
HE HOLDS THE MILITARY CARD
BECAUSE IT'S HIS TERRITORY
HE HOLDS POLITICAL CARDS BECAUSE
A VERY LARGE PART OF UKRAINE
SUPPORTS PUTIN, NOT THE WEST
HE HOLDS ECONOMIC CARDS BECAUS
UKRAINE IS PART OF THE RUSSIAN
ECONOMY.
LEGALLY, YOU'LL HAVE TO ASK
LAWYER, THERE IS A QUESTIO
WHETHER THE RUSSIANS ARE RIGHT
IS THE GOVERNMENT IN KIEV, WHICH
OVERTHREW TEN DAYS AGO THE
CONSTITUTIONAL ORDER IN KIEV AND
THREW OUT THE ELECTED PRESIDENT.
IS IT A LEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT?
PUTIN SAYS IT'S LEGITIMATE
WE HAVEN'T RECOGNIZED IT YET BUT
HE SAYS LEGITIMATE
ONI DON'T KNOW WHAT A LAWYER
WOULD SAY.
>> ARE WE FOLLOWING THE PATH I
2008, RUSSIA AND GEORGIA, WHER
THIS ESCALATED INTO AN ALL-OUT
WAR FOR A FEW DAYS
>> THERE IS A SIMILARITY
IN THE SENSE THAT, TOO, IS A RED
LINE, THE FORMER SOVIET REPUBLIC
OF GEORGIA
THERE'S SOMETHING ELSE THERE
FIRST OF ALL, IT WAS OF MUCH
LESSER IMPORTANCE TO RUSSIA THAN
UKRAINE, BECAUSE OF ITS LOCATION
AND ITS SIZE
SECONDLY, EVEN THOUGH WE ALWAY
SAY THAT RUSSIA, PUTIN INVAD
GEORGIA, THE FACT IS THE WAR WAS
BEGUN BY THE AMERICAN BACKED
MILITARY FORCES IN GEORGIA
BECAUSE THEY ATTACKED RUSSIA
ENCLAVES IN GEORGIA.
TODAY NOBODY IS FIRING A SHOT.
IF NOBODY FIRES A SHOT, THERE'
A WAY OUT.
THERE IS A WORSE SCENARIO.
THAT IS THE RUSSIANS THINK THE
HAVE TO MOVE THEIR TROOPS NO
ONLY INTO CRIMEA, PENINSULA WITH
NAVAL BASES AND HISTORICALLY
PART OF RUSSIA BUT EASTERN AND
SOUTHERN UKRAINE GENERALLY, IN
WHICH CASE ENORMOUS PRESSURE FOR
NATO TO MOVE INTO WESTER
UKRAINE AND THEN ALL BETS AR
OFF.
>> WOULD THE CAPABILITY OR
CAPACITY OF UKRAINIAN ARM, WHERE
DO THEY LIE?
>> THE ARMY, AS MUCH AS IT IS,
30,000 TROOPS, IS ETHNICALLY
RUSSIAN.
WE DON'T KNOW IF THEY WOUL
FOLLOW KIEV'S ORDERS F THERE WAS
A WAR, LITERALLY EVEN IF WE'RE
NOT RELIGIOUS, WE NEED TO PRAY
THERE'S NOT A WAR.
THIS WOULD BE A TURNING POINT IN
HISTORY.
IF THERE'S A WAR, UKRAINIANS
WOULD SUPPORT KIEV AND WES
WOULD BECOME PART OF THE
FIGHTERS
THEY DON'T HAVE AN ARMY THAT CAN
FIGHT.
THAT WOULD BE AS BLOODY AS
ANYTHING
IT WILL BE A CIVIL WAR
ANCIENT HATE REDS, TOMBSTONE
WILL BE KICKED OVER AS THEY SAY.
ANCIENT HATE REDS WOULD ROME THE
LAND FOR YEARS AND YEARS
>> YOU'VE STUDIED RUSSIA
RELATIONS.
HOW BAD IS THIS NOW?
>> I THINK WE HAVE SEEN TH
DECENT OF RUSSIA DIVIDE, THE
RUSSIAN BOERSD
CAN IT END THERE
I THINK IT DEPENDS WHETHER THE
WEST NOW RISES TO LEADERSHIP AND
GIVES PUTIN GUARANTEES HE NEED
TO BACK OFF.
NOW IN AMERICA THERE'S A
DIFFERENT VIEW
HAS HE TO BACK OFF FIRST
BUT THAT'S WHERE WE STAND.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE
>>> FOR CONTINUING COVERAGE OF
THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE, VISIT
"NEWSHOUR".PBS.ORG
>>> CHINA TODAY BLAMED UIGHU
SEPARATISTS FOR A DEADLY ATTAC
AT A TRAIN STATION
AT LEAST 29 PEOPLE KILLED AN
140 WOUNDED AFTER A GROUP OF 1
MEN ATTACKED PASSENGERS AT A
TRAIN STATION WITH KNIVES.
AUTHORITIES KILLED FOUR OF THE
MEN AND CAPTURED ANOTHER
THEY ARE LOOKING FOR THE REST.
THE ATTACK TOOK PLACE IN
UNIONAN, 900 MILES FROM GI
JIANG, THE AREA WHERE THEY
LEAVE.
A SERIES OF ATTACKS THAT LEFT 90
PEOPLE DEAD THERE.
EXTREMISTS BLAMED FOR KILLING 39
VILLAGERS IN AN OVERNIGH
ATTACK
ANOTHER 51 PEOPLE KILLED IN CA
BOMBINGS IN AN URBAN AREA.
MANY WERE CHILDREN
THE GROUP RESPONSIBLE TRANSLATES
TO WESTERN EDUCATION IS SINFUL
>>> THE UNITED STATES HA
RELEASED A CONVICTED CUBAN SPY
HE WAS WELCOMED HOME IN HAVANA
AFTER BEING IN PRISON IN THE
UNITED STATES FOR 15 YEARS
HE WAS ONE OF FIVE MEN ARRESTE
IN MIAMI IN 1998
THEY WERE ALLEGEDLY MONITORING
THE ACTIVITIES OF ANTI-CUBAN
GROUPS
ANOTHER OF THE CONVICTED SPIES
HAD BEEN RELEASED EARLIER.
THE REMAIN THREE ARE STILL BEING
HELD
>>> THERE HAS BEEN A SETBACK FOR
ANIMAL RIGHTS GROUPS TRYING TO
DOCUMENT ALLEGED ANIMAL ABUS
AND CRUELTY.
ON FRIDAY IDAHO BECAME THE
SEVENTH STATE TO CRIMINALIZE
HIDDEN CAMERAS RECORDINGS INSIDE
FARMS.
A GROUP KNOWNS AS MERCY FO
ANIMALS GOT HIRED AT ONE OF TH
STATE'S LARGEST DAIRY FARMS AN
THEN SHOT VIDEO OF WORKERS
CANING, BEATING AND SEXUALLY
ABUSING COWS
UNDER THE NEW LAW ANYONE
CONVICTED OF RECORDING HIDDE
CAMERA VIDEO INSIDE AN
AGRICULTURE OPERATION COULD BE
JAILED FOR A YEAR AND FINE
$5,000
>>> THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE FRON
AND CENTER BUT TALKS ABOUT
ANOTHER INTERNATIONAL TROUBL
SPOT IN THE MIDDLE EAST SET TO
GET UNDER WAY IN WASHINGTON.
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU
JOINS PRESIDENT OBAMA.
JOINING US AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT
FOR "WALL STREET JOURNAL."
I'M ASSUMING WHAT'S FRONT AN
CENTER HERE IS THE CONVERSATIO
OR NEGOTIATION BETWEEN THE U.S
AND IRAN AND ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM
ARE ACCELERATING AND ISRAE
FEELS WITH WHAT THE U.S. I
OFFERING IS TOO LENIENT TOWARD
IRAN
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU
HAVE BEEN VERY CRITICAL SINC
THIS NEGOTIATION PICKED UP STEAM
LAST NOVEMBER SAYING THEY WANT A
COMPLETE DISMANTLING OF IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM, IF THEY DON'T
DO IT, KEEP THE SANCTIONS ON
THEM, THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
IS PURSUING A DIPLOMACY THAT'S
REALLY ACCELERATING BUT ALREAD
ACCEPTED IRAN WILL MAINTAIN SOME
ABILITY TO PRODUCE NUCLEAR FUE
IN THE FUTURE.
THE SANCTIONS HAVE ALREADY BEE
EASED.
THERE'S A HUGE GAP BETWEEN THE
ISRAELIS AND THE AMERICANS O
THIS DIPLOMACY
I DO THINK THAT WILL BE THE KE
ISSUE THE PRIME MINISTER WANTS
TO TALK TO PRESIDENT OBAMA
ABOUT.
>> WHAT ABOUT MIDDLE EAST PEAC
PROCESS IN THE BACKGROUND.
THERE'S BEEN SOME FRICTION FRO
ISRAELIS SAYING IT LOOKS LIK
PRESIDENT OBAMA WANTS TO
SPEARHEAD A SPECIFIC AGENDA AN
IT'S TOO AGGRESSIVE.
>> THE PEACE PROCESS HAS KIND OF
BEEN HANGING OUT THERE
IT DOESN'T GET AS MUCH ATTENTION
IN THE PRESS AS IT USED TO BUT
STILL THERE.
BASICALLY BY THE END OF APRIL,
APRIL 30th WAS THE ORIGINA
DEADLINE FOR WHEN TH
NEGOTIATIONS THAT WE'R
BROKERING BETWEEN ISRAELIS AND
PALESTINIANS WAS SUPPOSED TO
END.
RIGHT NOW SECRETARY KERRY IS
REALLY PUSHING FOR WHAT'S CALLED
A FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT, WHICH I
BASICALLY WILL SET CLEARER TERMS
FOR WHAT THE NEGOTIATION WIL
FOCUS ON AND WILL ALLOW FOR TH
APRIL 30th DEADLINE TO BE KICKED
DOWN THE ROAD AND CONTINUE THE
PROCESS.
ISRAELIS HAVE ALWAYS BEE
CONCERNED THAT THE AMERICANS
WILL SORT OF CREATE THEIR OW
DEAL, BASICALLY, AND SAY TAKE IT
OR LEAVE IT.
THIS IS SOMETHING THEY HAV
FOUGHT VERY AGGRESSIVELY AND
THAT THEY ARE PUSHING BACK
ABOUT.
I'M SURE THAT WILL BE AFTER IRAN
SORT OF SECOND BIGGEST ISSUE THE
TWO LEADERS WILL DISCUSS
>> SPEAKING OF SECRETARY O
STATE KERRY, HE RUFFLED A FE
FEATHERS EARLIER THIS YEAR WIT
COMMENTS ABOUT ECONOMI
ISOLATION AND ENTITIES
BOYCOTTING ISRAEL.
ISRAEL PUSHED BACK
>> SPEAKING IN MUNICH SAYING I
THE PEACE PROCESS COLLAPSE, TH
PUSH BY EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, TH
BASIC BOYCOTT OF ISRAEL WILL
INCREASE A LOT
SECRETARY KERRY BASICALLY SAID
HE WAS JUST DESCRIBING WHAT WA
GOING ON
HE WASN'T THREATENING.
BUT THERE WAS REAL PUSHBACK BY
THE PRIME MINISTER AND A NUMBE
OF VERY CONSERVATIVE POLITICIANS
IN ISRAEL.
SO I THINK IT JUST SHOWS HOW
MUCH TENSION THERE IS ON THE
MIDWEST PEACE PROJECT.
>> FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT
FOR "WALL STREET JOURNAL
JOINING US FROM WASHINGTON
THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> NEXT MONTH FOR THE SEVENTH
CONSECUTIVE YEARS ORGANIZATION
WILL HOLD FUNDRAISING FOR AUTISM
AWARENESS.
HERE THEY AIM TO MAKE LIVE
THEATER ACCESSIBLE TO CHILDREN
AND ADULTS ON THE AUTISM
SPECTRUM
A REPORTER'S STORY FIRST AIRED
IN JANUARY
>> Reporter: THIS MIGHT LOOK
LIKE THE TYPICAL SATURDA
MATINEE ON BROADWAY.
THE FACT ANNE-MARIE IS HERE WITH
HER SON NICK TELLS YOU IT'
ANYTHING BUT AND TICKETS FOR
THIS PARTICULAR PERFORMANC
WEREN'T AVAILABLE TO THE GENERAL
PUBLIC
THEY WERE ONLY SOLD TO FAMILIE
LIKE HERS.
THIS PERFORMANCE O
"SPIDER-MAN:TURN OFF THE DARK"
WAS ESPECIALLY AVAILABLE FOR
PEOPLE WITH AUTISM
SCOTTY HAS A VERY DIFFICULT TIME
GOING TO ANY KIND OF SHOW.
>> WHEN YOU GO TO PLACES,
ALWAYS FEEL LIKE I'M ON GUARD.
I HAVE TO BE LIKE, OKAY, MY SO
HAS AUTISM
I'M SORRY IF HE DOES SOMETHING
TO BOTHER YOU OR UPSET YOU, BU
I WANT HIM TO BE ABLE TO ENJOY
THIS AS WELL
>> ANNE-MARIE SCOTTY SAYS HE
FAMILY HAS WALKED OUT OF
PERFORMANCES WASTING HUNDREDS OF
DOLLARS BECAUSE OF DISAPPROVIN
STARES AND COMMENTS FROM OTHER
AUDIENCE MEMBERS
>> NICK WANTED TO SE
"SPIDER-MAN" IN THE WORST WAY.
THAT WAS ONE PLAY I WAS NO
GOING TO GO TAKE HIM TO.
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHERE TH
THEATER DEVELOPMENT FUND STEPPED
IN
>> THIS IS A WAY OF ENSURING A
WARM, WELCOMING ENVIRONMEN
JUDGMENT-FREE, SO THAT FAMILIE
CAN COME AND RELAX AND HAVE
GOOD TIME AND NOT WORRY ABOU
HOW THE PERSON ON THE SPECTRUM
IS GOING TO BEHAVE OR WHAT OTHER
PEOPLE MIGHT THINK
>> Reporter: LISA IS DIRECTOR OF
ACCESSIBILITY PROGRAMS OF TH
THEATER DEVELOPMENT FUND
THE NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION
COORDINATES PERFORMANCES LIK
THESE FOUR TIMES A YEAR.
THE MISSION IS TO MAKE LIV
THEATER MORE ACCESSIBLE TO
DIVERSE AUDIENCES.
HERE ARE SOME OF THE THING
YOU'LL SEE AT AN AUTISM FRIENDLY
SHOW THAT YOU WOULDN'T SEE O
BROADWAY OTHERWISE
USHERS HAVE ABOUT 30 EXTRA
HELPERS ON HAND.
THEY HAND OUT COLORFUL STRES
RELIEVERS CALLED MANIPULAIVE T
HELP AUTISTIC AUDIENCE MEMBERS
TO RELAX BEFORE AND DURING THE
PERFORMANCE.
THEY MAKE THE AUTISM FRIENDL
SHOWS AS CLOSE TO THE REGULA
SHOWS AS POSSIBLE.
AUDIO LEVELS ARE REDUCED B
ABOUT 20% AND STROBE LIGHTS AR
COMPLETELY ELIMINATED.
YET ORGANIZERS SAY IT'S WHAT'S
HAPPENING OFFER STAGE THAT TRULY
MAKES THIS BROADWAY PERFORMANC
UNIQUE
THE USUALLY EMPTY LOBBIES AR
TRANSFORMED INTO SPACES FO
BEANBAGS AND TOYS FOR FAMILIES
THAT NEED A BREAK FROM SENSORY
OVERLOAD
IF ANYONE NEEDS A BIGGER BREAK
SOME SECTIONS ARE DESIGNATED T
BE COMPLETELY SILENT
FOR WEEKS BEFORE THIS SPECIA
PERFORMANCE, THE THEATER
DEVELOPMENT FUND WAS ALREADY
HELPING NICK SCOTTY EASE INT
THIS NEW EXPERIENCE BY MAKIN
CUSTOMIZABLE SOCIAL STORIE
AVAILABLE ON ITS WEBSITE
>> HERE IS THE LOBBY
DO WE WALK OR DO WE RUN?
WHAT DO WE DO?
>> WALK.
>> WE WALK
RIGHT.
>> Reporter: EVEN WITH THE
CHANGES TO THE SHOW, NICK HAD
HARD TIME GETTING THROUGH TH
FIRST ACT.
>> YOU WERE IN A REGULAR PLAY,
YOU'D BE OUT BY NOW, IF YOUR KID
WASN'T QUIET ENOUGH.
EVERYONE HERE IS GREAT
ALL THE VOLUNTEERS HAVE BEEN
GREAT WITH MY KID.
I COULDN'T ASK FOR A BETTER DAY.
>>> RECAPPING OUR TOP STORY, THE
PRIME MINISTER OF UKRAINE SAID
TODAY HIS COUNTRY IS PERILOUSL
CLOSE TO WAR WITH RUSSIA, THIS
AS RUSSIAN TROOPS SURROUNDED
UKRAINIAN MILITARY BASES I
CRIMEA AND GAINED OPERATIONA
CONTROL OVER THE REGION.
THE AREA IS HOME TO THE RUSSIA
BLACK SEA FLEET BUT HAS BEEN
PART OF THE UKRAINE FOR 60
YEARS.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERR
WARNED TODAY THAT THE WEST WOULD
IMPOSE ECONOMIC SANCTIONS ON
RUSSIA UNLESS IT WITHDRAWS ITS
TROOPS
LATE TODAY KERRY ANNOUNCED H
WOULD TRAVEL TO UKRAINE TUESDAY.
RUSSIAN PRIME MINISTER MEDVEDE
SAID UKRAINE'S NEW PRO WESTERN
LEADERS SEIZED POWER
THEIR ROLE WILL END WITH A NEW
REVOLUTION AND NEW BLOOD SHED.
JOIN US ONLINE AND ON AI
TOMORROW FOR THE "NEWSHOUR" FO
THE LATEST ON UKRAINE.
ALSO HOW THEY DETERMINE IF A
PERSON IS MENTALLY FIT TO BE
EXECUTED
THAT'S IT FOR THE "NEWSHOU
WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.